# Bushfire-Analysis-using-Meteorological-Data

In later 2019 and early 2020, Australia faced devastating bushfires started in late 2019, which swiftly got worse before rains helped contain many of the worst fires in February 2020. Bushfires are major environmental issues, creating economical and ecological damages. It is reported that Australia’s catastrophic bushfire crisis has destroyed thousands of homes, burned millions hectares of forest, and taken an enormous toll on wildlife. Therefore, fast and automatic detection of bushfires at an early stage is crucial for a successful firefighting.

Traditional human surveillance is expensive and inefficient, which can also be affected by subject factors. With the advances in information technologies, a variety of data about the forest can be collected, such as remote images collected by satellites and meteorological data collected by local sensors. The collected data contains rich information about the status of the forest, the analysis of which can help us detect potential bushfires so as to make effective and efficient firefighting plan and then minimize the damage caused by the bushfires.

In this project, we are interested in exploring machine learning approaches to predict the burned area of bushfires by using meteorological data that are known to influence the wild fires. The dataset that we are going to use here were originally collected from the northeast region of Portugal between January 2000 and December 2003. It contains geographical information, fire weather indices, and the corresponding weather conditions. The aim is to build statistical models that can predict the burned area of the bushfires.
